生娃令人老？岁月忽已晚 Motherhood Can Make a Woman's Cells 'Older' by as Much as 11 Years

https://www.sciencealert.com/having-children-makes-women-s-dna-age-equivalent-11-years-telomeres-mother-birth

Childbirth inevitably results in significant changes to a woman's mind and body, but the ultimate lifelong consequences of motherhood could be far greater than we ever realised.

分娩不可避免地会导致女性生理和心理上的重大变化，对于一名母亲来说，分娩所带来的终身影响可能要远大于我们之前所认识到的。

A new analysis of DNA collected from nearly 2,000 reproductive-age women in the US reveals that those who had given birth showed evidence of altered genetic markers suggesting they'd undergone significantly accelerated cellular ageing.
在一份新的研究中，对将近2000名美国育龄妇女的DNA进行了分析。那些经历过分娩的妇女的遗传标记有被改变的迹象，这种改变使得她们的细胞衰老进程明显变快了。

"We were surprised to find such a striking result," epidemiologist Anna Pollack from George Mason University told New Scientist.
l"It is equivalent to around 11 years of accelerated cellular ageing."
“分娩可能带来相当于大约11年的细胞加速老化，对此我们深感震惊。”来自乔治梅森大学（George Mason University）的流行病学家安娜·波拉克（Anna Pollack）表示。

Pollack and her team analysed data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) – a broad cross-sectional study charting the wellness of people in the US over time.
全国健康和营养调查（NHANES）是一项内容广泛的长期调查报告，它描绘了美国人的健康状况。波拉克和她的团队分析了其中的数据。

When they examined data from the period 1999–2002 – years in which the survey included measurements of a genetic marker called telomeres – they noticed something unusual.
他们在分析1999-2002年间的数据时发现了一些不寻常的事情，在那几年调查报告中包含了对一种被称为端粒的遗传标记的测量。

Telomeres are molecular regions that act as caps on the ends of our chromosomes, helping to protect the genetic information in our cells from deteriorating over time – and, hypothetically, from exposure to things that are harmful to our health.
端粒是位于我们染色体的末端的分子区域，就像一顶帽子那样。它被用于保护我们细胞中的遗传信息，使得它们不会随着时间的推移而出错。此外，当我们被暴露在对健康有害的物质中的时候，端粒同样能起到保护的作用。

In that vein, telomere length is taken as a marker of how old we are on a cellular level, with longer telomeres considered better to have, since shorter telomeres have been associated with outcomes like cancer, heart disease, and cognitive decline.
因此，端粒长度可以被认为是人们在细胞水平上的年龄标志。也就是说，端粒越长越好，较短的端粒往往会与癌症，心脏病和认知衰退等后果相关。

Now, we might have something new to add to that list: childbirth.
如今我们发现分娩也和端粒变短相关联。

In the study, the team found that once they'd adjusted for things like age, ethnicity, education, smoking status, and so on, women who had given birth to at least one child had telomeres that were 4.2 percent shorter on average than those of women who had not borne children.
研究小组发现，在他们调校了年龄、种族、教育程度、吸烟状况等因素后，生育过至少一个孩子的女性的端粒平均长度，要比那些没有生育过孩子的女性短4.2%。

This average meant an adjusted difference of 116 fewer base pairs in women who had given birth, which the researchers explain is equivalent to around 11 years of accelerated cellular ageing.
研究人员解释说，这意味着对经历过生育的妇女而言，（她们的端粒）少了116个碱基对，相当于大约11年的细胞加速老化。

What's amazing is that this telomere shortening associated with childbirth is even greater than what's previously been observed in research examining the association seen with smoking (a cost of 4.6 years of cellular ageing) and obesity (8.8 years).
吸烟和肥胖同样会造成端粒缩短（分别相当于4.6年和8.8年的细胞加速老化），但是与此相比，分娩所带来的后果更加令人惊讶。

What's more, in the study, the telomere shortening seemed to vary depending on how many children the women had delivered.
并且，在这项研究中，人们发现端粒的缩短不仅和是否生育相关，还和生育的次数相关。

"We found that women who had five or more children had even shorter telomeres compared to those who had none, and relatively shorter relative to those who had one, two, three or four, even," Pollack told Newsweek.
波拉克在接受《新闻周刊》采访时表示，那些有五个及以上孩子的女性，她们的端粒长度要比那些有少于五个孩子的女性更短。

别慌
It's worth bearing in mind that due to the observational nature of the study, we can't conclude a causation effect here, only a correlation.
值得一提的是，由于这项研究是属于对观测结果的分析。上述结果显示出的仅仅是“相关性”，并不代表具有因果关系。

And at least one study has produced a contradictory result, with a 2016 study of rural Kaqchikel Mayan communities in Guatemala finding that women in the community with more surviving children had longer telomeres, suggesting that having children could actually protect women from cellular ageing.
而且至少有一项研究得出了与上述结论相矛盾的结果。2016年，一项在危地马拉的一个农村社区（Kaqchikel Mayan）中进行的研究表明，有更多存活子女的女性的端粒更长，也就是说，生孩子反而可以保护女性免受细胞衰老的影响。

Other previous studies have also quantified the size of telomere base pair reductions with less advanced terms of cellular ageing, which the researchers say could mean childbirth is only associated with about 4.5 years of advanced ageing.
此外，还有其他研究对端粒碱基对缩短和细胞老化的关系做了更保守的评估，研究人员表示，这可能意味着，分娩只相当于大约4.5年的细胞老化。

At least one researcher not involved with the study has suggested the effect might be as little as three years of biological ageing.
至少有一位没有参与此项研究的研究者表示，分娩所带来的细胞老化可能只有三年。

As for what could be behind the telomere shortening seen in the US sample, the researchers speculate stress involved in looking after children could be involved, but given how little research has been conducted in this area, they advise their results should be treated with caution.
对于美国样本中所发现的端粒缩短，研究人员推测说其背后的原因可能在于照顾孩子带来的压力。不过考虑到这方面的研究甚少，相关研究人员建议大家谨慎对待他们的推测。

"We're not saying 'don't have children'," Pollack told New Scientist, and while scientists keep examining what's really going on here, that's very level-headed advice.
“我们并没有鼓吹不生孩子”，波拉克是这么对《新科学家》表示的。科学家们仍然在不停歇地在研究端粒长度和分娩的关联。因此波拉克的这个结果的态度是并未感到惊慌。
